#summary How you might like to try things out, maybe.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

== Requirements ==

Please have on hand:

  * Linux (for now)
  * [http://subversion.tigris.org/ Subversion] (`sudo urpmi subversion`)
  * A relatively modern [http://ruby-lang.org/ Ruby] (let's say 1.8.5 and up)
  * [http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=126&release_id=27655 RubyGems] so you may get the next requirement
  * [http://treetop.rubyforge.org/ Treetop] (`gem install treetop`)

== Installation ==

Please follow the following steps, in the order in which they are ordered:

  # Checkout latest Brat version following instructions [http://code.google.com/p/brat-language/source/checkout here]
(I know there are packaged downloads, but they are usually out of date two minutes after being uploaded and they are no different than what's in the repository.)

== Testing ==

Try out your newly discovered power thusly:

  # Type `cd brat-language` (or wherever you tucked it away)
  # Create a new file, perhaps called `test.brat`
  # In that file, type something like: `p "OK COMPUTER"`
  # Save and close it
  # Return to the comfort of your command line
  # Make brat executable with `chmod +x brat`
  # Type `./brat test.brat`
  # Cross fingers
  # Press enter
  # Marvel or weep, as appropriate

== For Convenience ==

If you want to be able to run Brat from anywhere, you can add to your path.
For example, if you had put Brat in your home director under `brat-language/` you would do `export PATH=$PATH:$HOME/brat-language/`

== More Testing ==

Run `ruby test/test.rb` to run the test suite. SWEET.

== More Fun ==

Try using Brat interactively with `./brat -i`

== Problems ==

Sometimes there are problems. Everyone has issues. That is why the Google has provided us the 'Issues' tab above, via which you may share your problems with everyone else.

== Even More Fun ==

Yes, *even more* fun can be had by visiting the [Examples] page.